= UnimotionPlugin - Apple Mac OS X Dashboard widget plugin to read sudden motion sensors

== About 

UnimotionPlugin is an Apple Mac OS X Dashboard widget plugin for reading the sudden motion sensors found on Macbook Pros, Macbooks, Powerbooks and iBooks. It is based on the excellent Unimotion C library by Lincoln Ramsay, hosted at http://unimotion.sourceforge.net 

UnimotionPlugin allows you to read data from the Sudden Motion Sensor found it Apple Mac laptops. This sensor can measure the orientation and movement of your laptop. Dashboard widget developers are now easily able to read the SMS data via javascript to build widgets that have an awareness of an Apple laptops orientation and movement.

== Building from source

The project is hosted on Github http://github.com/matth/UnimotionPlugin To build from source you will need Xcode installed.

1. Clone the git repo

	git clone git://github.com/matth/UnimotionPlugin.git
	
2. Open the Xcode project and build
	
	open plugin/UnimotionPlugin/UnimotionPlugin.xcodeproj
	
3. If you have rake installed then a Rakefile has been setup to aid compilation. 

	rake build_plugin # Builds the UnimotionPlugin.bundle
	rake build_wdgt   # Builds the example Seismometer widget

== Example Widget: Seismometer 

The example application is an imitation seismometer, it plots movement on the X, Y and Z axis using data from the Unimotion plugin. This is demonstrates a simple use of the plugin, it could also be used to control games, sounds, etc.


== Installation

Follow these instructions to use the widget plugin within your own dashboard widgets.

1. Firstly copy the directory UnimotionPlugin.bundle into your widget's root directory. 
2. Once in place you must reference this in your widget's Info.plist file so it gets loaded in correctly. 
3. Add the following keys to your Info.plist:

	<key>Plugin</key>
	<string>UnimotionPlugin.bundle</string> 
	
4. The plugin should now be loaded into your widget, the following statement should return true.

	if (typeof UnimotionPlugin != 'undefined') 
	
You can now use the plugin's API from your javascript code

== The Javascript API

=== UnimotionPlugin.detectSms()

This will return an integer representing the sudden motion sensor hardware found.

	Return values :
	
	0 = No hardware found
	1 = Powerbook
	2 = iBook
	3 = High Res. Powerbook
	4 = Macbook / Macbook Pro


=== UnimotionPlugin.refreshData()

This will refresh the readings from the sudden motion sensor

=== UnimotionPlugin.readX()

Returns a floating point number representing the last reading from the X axis 

=== UnimotionPlugin.readY()

Returns a floating point number representing the last reading from the Y axis

=== UnimotionPlugin.readZ()

Returns a floating point number representing the last reading from the Z axis

== Developing your widget in a browser

It's often preferable to develop your widget in the browser, in this situation the plugin shall not be available. The below code set's up a 'mock' representation of the plugin so you can continue development in the browser.

	// For browser testing, where UnimotionPlugin doesn't exist
	if (typeof widget == 'undefined') {

		var UnimotionPlugin = function() {
		
			function randomNum() {
				var num = Math.random();
				if (Math.random() > 0.5) {
					num = num * -1;
				}
				return num;
			}

			return {
				'refreshData' : function() {},
				'readX' : randomNum,
				'readY' : randomNum,
				'readZ' : randomNum,
				'detectSms' : function() {
					return 4; // Hardware you want to represent
				}
			}

		}();
	
	}


== UnimotionPlugin License

(GPLv3)

Copyright (C) 2009 Matt Haynes

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/

== Unimotion C libraries License

Please see plugin/UnimotionPlugin/unimotion/LGPL.txt 